Upgrading notes for user profile (#24492)
keycloak/keycloak: docs/documentation/upgrading/topics/keycloak/changes-23_0_0.adoc

= Partial export requires manage-realm permission

The endpoint `POST {keycloak server}/realms/{realm}/partial-export` and the corresponding action in the admin console now require `manage-realm` permission for execution instead of `view-realm`. This endpoint exports the realm configuration into a JSON file and the new permission is more appropriate. The parameters `exportGroupsAndRoles` and `exportClients`, which include the realm groups/roles and clients in the export respectively, continue managing the same permissions (`query-groups` and `view-clients`).

= User Profile updates

> There are lots of fixes and updates related to user profile as we are working on promoting this feature from preview to officially supported.
> There are minor changes to the SPI like newly added method `boolean isEnabled(RealmModel realm)` on `UserProfileProvider` interface. Also
> some user profile classes as well as some validator related classes (but not builtin validator implementations) were moved from `keycloak-server-spi-private` to
> `keycloak-server-spi` module. However the packages for java classes remain the same. You might be affected just in some corner cases, like for instance when you
> are overriding the built-in implementation with your own `UserProfileProvider` implementation (however note that `UserProfileProvider` is unsupported SPI).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This release includes many fixes and updates that are related to user profile as we are working on promoting this feature from preview to officially supported.
Minor changes exist for the SPI such as the newly added method `boolean isEnabled(RealmModel realm)` on `UserProfileProvider` interface. Also
some user profile classes and some validator related classes (but not builtin validator implementations) were moved from `keycloak-server-spi-private` to
`keycloak-server-spi` module. However, the packages for java classes remain the same. You might be affected in some corner cases, such as when you
are overriding the built-in implementation with your own `UserProfileProvider` implementation However, note that `UserProfileProvider` is an unsupported SPI.
```
